hey this is presh tall Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions consider a
rectangular array of circles we'll fill
in some of these circles to make a
mathematical expression it currently
reads the quantity 10 plus 11 times the
quantity 10 minus 11 is equal to 100
plus 1 factorial but this is not
currently a valid equation the challenge
is to color four blue dots or erase four
blue dots to make a valid equation i
think professor pierre johansson at
Pforzheim university for creating this
puzzle can you figure it out give this
problem a try and when you are ready
keep watching the video for a solution
[Music]
so how can we make this into a valid
equation the amazing answer is that
we're going to make each eleven into a 1
times I we need to erase a total of 4
dots in each of the 11s we're going to
erase 2 dots for example in the first 11
we erase this dot and then this dot and
in the second 11 we do the same thing so
now the left-hand side becomes the
quantity 10 plus 1 times I times the
quantity 10 minus 1 times I when we
expand this out we get 100 plus 10 I
minus 10 I minus I squared this
simplifies to be 100 minus I squared
which is equal to 100 minus a negative 1
which then becomes 101 which is exactly
equal to 100 plus 1
factorial the solution is complex but
the answer is quite real did you figure
it out
thanks for watching this video these
math videos which can be watched for
free inspire and build confidence for
people around the world and they already
have over a hundred million views let's
share the beauty of mathematics with
your help we can math the world a better
place please subscribe for free to get
the newest videos watch and share all of
my your decisions videos email me a
puzzle or math topic presh
at mind your decisions calm if you so
choose you can check out my books which
are listed in the video description and
you can support me on patreon to earn
exclusive rewards thanks for watching
and thanks for your support